Good afternoon.
I'm Ralaiigh Ledet.
I'm a Cocoa Software Engineer and
welcome to session 115,
scrolling, swiping and dragging,
now with more animation.
We've got a jam-packed
session for you today.
So, first off I want to preface that
everything we're gonna be talking
about is all new stuff in Lion,
and of course it's only gonna
be appearing on the Mac OS.
So we got a lot to cover for scrolling.
We've got a new look to scrollers,
and we've got a new
elastic scrolling behavior,
so we're gonna cover how you can
integrate this into your application.
We have a new method
for doing fluid swiping.
You might have already seen
this in Safari when you go
back and forward in pages,
you can track what the user's doing
on the trackpad and make it real nice,
smooth animation.
We also have multi-image dragging,
and no longer is dragging
a static process.
It's no longer a fire forget where
it's just this one single image,
dragging is now a static
More fluid and has,
you can change the image on the
fly and it's really nice so we'll
show you the API for that as well.
So let's get right down to it
and start off with scrolling and
our new content focused redesign.
And to talk about scrollers,
I'm going to bring up Troy Stephens.
So as you've all probably have
the chance to notice by now,
scrollers in Lion have been the recipient
of probably the biggest redesign in
their look and feel in the history
of OS X since OS X 10.0 probably.
For many releases of OS X now,
we grew accustomed to sort of
the trademark Aqua scroller look.
The scrollers were this liquid blue
capsule on the side of your windows,
on the side of your scrollable areas
that really was very eye-catching
and attention-getting design.
Even if you run in graphite mode
and drain them of their color,
they're still kind of a heavyweight
user interface element relative to
some of the other stuff in Aqua,
especially now on Lion where everything
is really toned down and subdued,
everything that surrounds and
accessorizes your content.
But what are scrollers really?
They're kind of this invention that
we came up with in the computer
industry to enable users who have
a mouse to position their content
within a smaller visible content area.
So fast forward to Lion,
and scrollers are really just that.
They're accessories that are
just there when you need them.
They're much more subtle and subdued,
certainly in color.
They're more slender in size.
They appear only when you're scrolling.
And they disappear and get out of the
way and put the focus back on your
content when you're done scrolling.
So what is there to know about
scrollers that will affect
your applications in Lion?
Well,
one of the most important things to know,
first off, is that we actually have two
new scroller styles in Lion.
The first that we hope people will
be using in most cases are the
ones we call overlay scrollers
that I was just talking about.
And these are called overlay
scrollers because they're composited
atop the user's content area.
So within your scroll view,
the scrollers actually now
go on top of the clip view.
This gives the user more
potentially viewable content area,
you know,
instead of having us shave off sides
of the potential content area and
devoting those entirely to scrollers
that you don't need all the time,
the scrollers are
composited atop the content.
Again, they fade out when the
user is not scrolling,
so they're just there when you need them,
and then they're out of the way,
enabling you to focus on your content.
Now, the first time we presented...
So the first time we presented
a scroll view to the user,
the first time its window is ordered
in or it's added to the window,
the scroll view has a behavior
of automatically pulsing
its scrollers to visible.
This is very similar
to what's done on iOS.
So this gives the user a cue that, oh,
there's more to see here in this
viewport than I can see right now,
and I can potentially mouse in there
and touch scroll to scroll that area.
This is done automatically in most of
the cases where you'd want it to be done,
but you're always free to send a flash
scrollers message to your scroll view,
and that will trigger the
same behavior to happen again.
You can send this as
many times as you want.
And we'll batch those
up and just do a nice,
smooth flash of the scrollers.
Now, if I put my two fingers down on
the trackpad and begin scrolling,
the scrollers show,
and they stay shown for
as long as I'm scrolling,
and also as long as I keep that touch
held on the trackpad or Magic Mouse.
Only when I let up are the
scrollers free to hide.
Now, if I begin scrolling again,
once I start moving the
mouse in the content area,
I have all the time in the world
to get down into the scroller,
and I can use all the familiar
mouse-based scroller behaviors.
So I can drag the thumb.
I can even option drag to find scroll.
As long as the mouse stays in the track,
both of the scrollers
stay pinned to visible.
Only when I mouse out are
they free to hide again.
So on the Mac,
you sort of get iOS scrollers now,
but it's the best of both worlds because
you also have the ability to manipulate
the scrollers using the mouse if and
when that's more comfortable for you.
Now,
in addition to the overlay scrollers,
the second style that we have,
we call the legacy scroller style.
This is really the 10.6
and earlier scrollers.
Restyled for Lion, so again,
they're also more subtle
and subdued looking,
no bright blue capsule in there.
But other than that,
they're metrics compatible with
the earlier scrollers and they
have all the same behaviors.
So these are provided for out-of-the-box
compatibility with existing applications,
and also to accommodate the
user's preferences and any
accessibility needs they might have.
Now,
users on Lion can always ask for their
scrollers to be shown to them always.
This can be done in system preferences
under the general category,
used to be called appearance.
If users ask for this,
we need to show them legacy
scrollers everywhere.
It's a preference that they've
expressed that we need to obey.
We also -- you'll see these
used if you have an application
that inserts accessory views
into the scroll views margins.
This has been a very useful technique
for a long time now because if you've
always got the scrollers there but you
don't need the full length of the space,
you can kind of shim in an extra, say,
a Zoom pop-up like you might see
in text edits wrapped to page mode
or other accessory views like that.
If we detect these in there,
they interfere with the potential
to use overlay scrollers,
so we'll fall back to legacy scrollers,
but that's a really
easy problem to solve,
and I'll show you how to do it.
Also when we encounter subclassed
NSScroller instances that we
aren't sure are compatible with
Lion's new scroller behaviors,
we will fall back to be sure we're
compatible to the legacy look and
behavior as the basis for those,
but it's real easy to show
us -- to inform us that your
scrollers are Lion-compatible.
So, given that we have these
two scroller styles,
how do we determine which one -- which
style to use in a particular case?
Well, as I said,
it all goes back to appearance --
to the user's general preferences,
rather.
The user has a choice
in the general settings.
They can ask for their
scrollers to be shown always.
And again, that means we give them
legacy scrollers everywhere.
They can ask for scrollers to
be shown only when scrolling.
So they are explicitly asking
for overlay scrollers wherever
we can give them to them.
We still have to fall back in those
two cases that I mentioned to legacy
scrollers if we detect accessory views
in the way or subclass scrollers that
we don't know are Lion compatible.
But in all other cases,
we'll give them overlay scrollers.
And then the last -- and
actually the first option here,
automatically based on input device,
this is the default for
new and existing users.
And what it tells us is you decide.
It leaves it up to the system
We do pointing device detection.
We look at all of the trackpads
and mice and tablets and
whatnot connected to the system.
We look at which ones have
gesture scroll capability.
And if you have external
devices connected,
we'll disregard an internal trackpad
in favor of looking at the most capable
external device to see if we have at
least one external device that has
gesture scroll capability enabled,
then we can use overlay scrollers.
The full set of rules and
logic is somewhat complicated.
If you're interested
in it for some reason,
you can find it explained in the
application kit release notes.
But mostly we try to make
this automatic and sensible.
So because we have these
two scroller styles,
because users can change
their preferences over time,
and because they can connect and
disconnect devices over time,
your applications need to be prepared
to work with both types of scrollers.
Both at app launch time and over
the lifetime of your process,
the preferred scroller style may change.
So you need to be able to react to that.
Fortunately, in most cases,
you don't have to do anything.
AppKit keeps track of all
scroll views that are in use.
So if you're using scroll
views in your apps,
which you most likely are,
AppKit will automatically find
every scroll view instance and
send setScrollerStyle to each of
your scroll views when the style
changes with the new scroller style,
either overlay or legacy.
The scroll view knows to
automatically update itself,
update its layout, redraw,
and present the new style
of scrollers to the user.
But just in case you have any other code
that wants to respond to these changes,
maybe there are other aspects of your
UI layout that you want to change,
there's a preferred scroller
style method on NSScroller.
You can always ask it, what's the system
preferred scroller style?
Either overlay or legacy.
And there's a notification
that you can subscribe to to
observe for when this changes.
Within the overlay scroller style,
just as on iOS with iOS scrollers,
we actually have three sub-styles.
We have different knob styles
for use on different backgrounds.
So the default style is really
designed to be visible on as wide
a variety of backgrounds as our
graphic designers could manage.
It's sort of a semi-transparent
black with a thin white halo around
it that tries to optimize for better
visibility on darker backgrounds.
But if you have a background that's
really pretty dark and you try
to use that default knob style,
it may be hard for the user to
make out on top of that background.
So if you have knowledge about
the nature of your content
and is it light or is it dark,
you could in this case opt for
the light scroller knob style.
So this is something you
would explicitly set.
If you set it on the scroll view,
the scroll view will tell
both of its scrollers,
if it has two of them,
to update accordingly.
So just set this on the scroll view and
let the scroll view manage its scrollers.
And there's also a dark style that looks
pretty much like the default style.
It's a little bit lighter,
except without that light halo around it.
And you'll see this in
play in Safari online.
They're actually taking
advantage of this.
So most web pages tend
toward lighter content.
They use the default
scroller style on those.
But on darker pages, such as this,
they will tell us, "Hey,
use the light scroller style.
We figured out that the background color,
it's overall black,
so we want to use the light
scroller style." And that helps
users out a lot when you have the
knowledge to be able to do that.
So how do you make your scroller
subclasses overlay scroller compatible?
Well, that's a great question.
Well, it's really pretty easy.
You might imagine that there
would be a method such as,
"Is compatible with overlay
scrollers?" that you'd override,
and there is.
And you could simply
override that to return yes,
but if you want to be
a little more clever,
you can use the technique shown here
to avoid speaking for any potential
subclasses of your scroller subclass
in case you're developing a framework.
And the contract that you're agreeing
to here is really very simple,
and it should be easy.
We hope to rearrange any
code you have to keep it.
The most important thing is,
if you do any drawing
customization for your scrollers,
you need to override the parts-based
drawing methods rather than
overriding draw-rect wholesale
to draw your entire scroller.
And the reason for this is that we need
to be able to show and hide the scroll
thumb and the scroller track separately.
The scroll thumb is visible any
time the scrolling is in progress.
That's the first part of
itself that a scroller shows.
The track is only visible when the user
mouses into the scroller track area.
So we need to be able to fade
those in and out separately.
We need to be able to call
you to draw them separately.
But as far as the
crossfade and the behavior,
we take care of that
automatically for you.
You just draw at full opacity.
And then similarly for hit testing,
override the parts-based
methods if you must.
You need to be okay with
the fact that scrollers,
both overlay and legacy,
no longer have arrows on Lion.
So if you ask for the
rect for part for arrows,
we're going to return
empty rectangles for those.
And you need to be okay with the
possibility that overlay scrollers
may have different widths and layout
metrics than legacy scrollers,
which we've painstakingly tried
to make have the exact same
metrics for compatibility.
In practice on Lion,
we found that for compatibility,
it was best to keep the metrics the same,
but in the future, the two might diverge.
Accessory views,
the second leading cause of fallback
to legacy scrollers besides user
preferences and custom classes.
So what are the implications
for accessory views?
Why do we care about these?
Well, with overlay scrollers, again,
what we're trying to do is give space
and attention back to the user's content.
So we've got these scrollers now
that we composite them atop the
content area instead of shaving
space off of that clip view.
And we automatically hide
them when they're not in use,
so they don't interfere
with the user's content.
But what's going to happen with your
accessory views if we don't do anything
about them is they'll end up laid out
atop an edge of the user's content area.
Now, that could be unimportant margin,
or it could be important content
that the user needs to be able
to click on to select or interact
with something we don't know.
So we probably need to do something
about it when we see them.
We can't really leave them
obscuring the user's content
for the reasons I just gave,
but at the same time,
if we were to presume to automatically
hide them with the scrollers,
well,
that could be problematic for users too,
right?
I don't want to have to touch scroll just
so that I can get my zoom pop-up to show
so I can change the zoom on my document.
That's not going to
be what I want either.
So therefore,
when we see those accessory views
just in the right-hand or bottom
scroller margins of a scroll view
where we think the scroller should be,
we'll fall back just for that scroll view
instance to the legacy scroller style.
So you may see this happen
in your applications.
It's really easy to solve by
just moving that UI elsewhere.
As soon as we don't see
accessory views anymore,
that scroll view is eligible.
It's also possible to
use overlay scrollers.
A few quick notes about
API changes related to this.
First of all,
if you have ever tried to subclass in a
scroller to provide a custom appearance,
you may be happy to know that
AppKit now consistently consumes
our public rec-for-part API,
so you can override that to change the
layout of elements of your scroller.
The methods and constants for
dealing with arrows are of course
they're soft deprecated now.
You can still call them but
they don't really mean anything.
And incidentally the control
tint we used to have this
Aqua versus graphite control tint.
That doesn't really affect
scrollers anymore for either style.
They have the same appearance
for blue or graphite.
There are some layout methods,
class methods on scroller and
scroll view that have been useful
if you're creating your scrollers
and scroll views programmatically,
and you want to pre-flight
the layout and figure out how
much space am I going to need.
For scroller,
there's a new replacement method,
scroller width for control size,
scroller style,
that lets you specify regular or small
scroller size and also which style,
legacy or overlay,
because that may make a
difference in the future.
So the older methods,
you can still use them,
but they assume regular control
size and whatever the system's
preferred scroller style is.
Likewise on scroll view,
frame size for content
size and its counterpart,
content size for frame size, et cetera,
new replacements that allow
for the possibility that
scrollers are subclassed,
that you may be using regular or small
control style for your scrollers,
and that the scroller style, again,
may be legacy or overlay.
The existing methods, still usable,
but they assume no subclassing,
regular control size and the system's
current preferred scroller style.
And that really is all there
is to know about scrollers.
But there's a whole lot more
to know about enhancements to
scrolling and swiping and dragging.
And for that,
I'll return you to my colleague,
Raleigh Lede.
Thank you.
Raleigh Lede: Thank you, Troy.
So continuing with our
content-focused redesign of scrolling,
we've brought over elastic scrolling,
also known as rubber banding from iOS.
Since the scrollers aren't visible,
we need to provide some more feedback
to the user on what is scrollable and
what directions that the user can scroll.
And you can participate as
well in this as a developer.
In a scroll view we have
a couple of new methods,
horizontal scroll elasticity,
vertical scroll elasticity,
and their associated set methods.
And likewise, in Xcode 4,
right in the interface editor,
you can select the scroll view and
change the settings right there
with a couple of pop-up buttons.
So what in a scroll
elasticity options do we have?
Well, the default is in a scroll
elasticity automatic.
We have some heuristics in
place that try and figure out
the look at your document view.
How big is it compared to
the size of the scroll view?
And we err to the side
of vertical scrolling.
Most things are going to be
vertically scrolling oriented.
And we automatically figure out which
axis we should allow scrolling--scroll
rubber banding to happen on.
But this doesn't always
work in all cases.
Particularly a good example
where our heuristics fall down
is if your application has a
timeline and the timeline scrolls
dominantly in the horizontal axis,
or possibly only in the horizontal axis.
In that case,
you would want to set the vertical
axis to NS scroll elasticity none.
Now when the user attempts to
scroll in the vertical axis,
you won't get any rubber banding on
that axis and the user knows that
content will not continue to go
down in the vertical orientation,
so they're not missing anything.
But likewise you're going to want
to set NSScrollElasticityAloud
on the horizontal axis.
This way,
even if your content for the timeline,
like when you create a new document,
it hasn't created enough content
to exceed the bounds of the scroll
view on the horizontal axis yet.
We will still rubber band
on the horizontal axis.
And this gives feedback to the user
to let them know that in general for
this document and this particular view
that there will be horizontal content
that they will want to scroll to,
if not now, definitely in the future.
That's the scroll elasticity settings.
We also have another property here,
"Users' Predominant Axis Scrolling."
And this is an interesting,
uh, property.
If you look at a traditional
scroll wheel mouse,
you can only scroll in
one direction at a time,
typically vertically,
or if you know the appropriate modifier
key to hold down while you scroll,
you can actually scroll
in the horizontal axis.
But you can only scroll
on one axis at a time.
With the introduction
of the Mighty Mouse,
for that matter, but also, in particular,
the Magic Trackpad and the Magic Mouse,
we allow the user to scroll
on both axes at the same time.
And this works really great for
certain types of applications,
a drawing application,
a painting application,
or perhaps you're showing a map
or some kind of large canvas area,
and you get a nice panning
effect whenever the user scrolls.
It works out really great.
But in other applications,
this doesn't work so well.
Perhaps some kind of text editing
document or just browsing the web,
where generally what the user
wants to do there is scroll
in one direction at a time.
And the problem is,
the problem with the Magic Mouse and
the Magic Trackpad is it's real hard as
a user to move your fingers perfectly
vertically or perfectly horizontal.
You're gonna have some
drift along the other axis.
And this is gonna come
through a scroll wheel event,
and a scroll view will
scroll in that direction.
You'll see this drift.
And if your content-- this isn't
the appropriate way to view it,
this isn't what your user
is going to intend to do,
you can set user's predominant axis
scrolling to "yes," and we will attempt
to treat the devices more like this.
So we'll make the user a
scrolling only in one axis,
and whichever axis they're
dominantly scrolling at the time.
Thank you.
As I'm sure a lot of you that's
installed Line have already seen,
when you move your fingers
up on the trackpad,
your content scrolls up.
We want to have the feeling that you're
-- the user's actually physically
moving their content as opposed
to moving the thumb in a scroller.
And likewise,
whenever you bring your fingers down,
the content scrolls in
the other direction.
This feels really great
and we really love it.
But for some people, they really, really,
really want the traditional
way that scrolling worked.
So we have user preference in trackpad
and also in mouse that they can
set this on content follows finger.
And the way we actually perform
this is deep down in the system,
we look at the user setting and
whatever the hardware is doing,
because the hardware still
does what it did before,
we invert the delta X and the delta
Y automatically for you and you
automatically get the new behavior.
Unfortunately,
this doesn't work in some cases
where already you were looking at
the scrolling delta and figured
out what the correct direction is.
Perhaps you were doing
a volume controller,
for example.
And scrolling up always increased
the volume and scrolling
down decreased the volume.
And that made perfect sense.
And now if the user has content
follows finger set to yes,
this is completely inverted for you.
In these rare cases,
when it's appropriate,
you can look on the scroll wheel event
for is direction inverted from device
and regardless of the user setting,
you can now re-invert the
scrolling delta and up will
always be increase the volume,
down will always be decrease the volume.
Regardless of what the user setting is.
In general, please though,
respect the user's preference unless
it absolutely positively makes sense
for your application and in your
specific situation in your application.
We also have some new scrolling delta
X and scrolling delta Y properties
on NSEvent for scroll wheel events.
These supersede the traditional
delta X and delta Y because we
hopefully--they will have more
precise scrolling information in them.
And what do I mean there?
Traditionally, every time you have a tick
of the scroll wheel happens,
you want to move what
we call line height.
You want to move one whole line.
In this example, a line would be the one
row of the table here.
If you had a tick of the scroll wheel,
you would move one line.
Well, with the latest
Magic Mouse and Mighty Mouse,
we have much more precise
information that we can give you,
and we've been doing this for some time.
And with these more precise information,
instead of scrolling a whole line,
you scroll that number
of points in your view,
and it's a much more fluid and better
feeling scrolling behavior to the user.
And NSScrollView has automatically
taken advantage of this for some time,
but it hasn't been public.
So if you're not using an
NSScrollView for some reason and
you're looking directly at the deltas,
we will now have a public way for you
to get to this more precise information.
But you can also check the has
precise scrolling deltas property.
If this returns no,
then the scrolling delta x and
scrolling delta y will contain line
scrolling deltas and you need to
multiply by whatever your line height
is whenever you do your scrolling.
We also have a couple of new,
an additional two properties
on NSScrollWheelEvent which
is phase and momentum phase.
And let's talk about
why you might use these.
NSScrollView handles precise
scrolling deltas as I mentioned.
It also handles the phase,
the momentum phase,
and these are the couple events
properties that we rely on to do
rubber-banding and elasticity.
So if you're using it in a scroll view,
you don't even have to worry about them.
But perhaps you have a volume controller
and when the user does a quick motion
on the Magic Trackpad and this will
generally in a scroll view continue
to scroll the content with momentum,
you don't want to do that
in your volume controller.
Would that really make a lot of
sense where the user moves their
finger a little bit and this
extra momentum scroller slams the
volume all the way up to high?
It's probably not what the user wants.
So by looking at the phase and
the momentum phase properties,
you can determine which scroll events
you want to filter out from your --
from interacting with your control.
Likewise, perhaps you have,
let's say here,
a time code in a cell or a view.
And the user starts scrolling in
your time code and they can change
between the hours and the minutes
and you automatically start updating
the appropriate subpart of your
view and they go into a momentum
scroll by flicking on the mouse.
AppKit is going to lock those
scroll events to your view.
So even if the user moves the
cursor outside of your view,
you're going to continue to
get these scroll wheel events.
Well, what part of your time code
should you update at that point?
By looking at where the mouse was
when the momentum phase started,
you can then lock it to the
appropriate part of your time
code and continue to update just
that portion of your time code.
So regardless of what the
user does with the mouse.
A traditional scroll wheel
is completely relative.
Every time there's a turn of the wheel,
we get a single scroll wheel event.
We don't know when the user's
touching the scroll wheel.
We don't know when they stop
We don't have any of that information.
So every time the user does
a tick on the scroll wheel,
the new phase,
the momentum phase properties
are gonna be NSEventPhaseNone.
And this is one interesting way
for you to determine by looking
at any scroll wheel event,
did this event come from a
gesture scrolling device,
or did it come from a
scroll wheel type of mouse?
On the other hand,
something like the Magic Mouse,
we can tell exactly when
the user starts touching it,
but no events get sent out at
this point because with one
finger the user might click.
We don't know what they're doing yet.
But once they start moving
their finger a little bit,
we latch on that, ah-ha,
the user is doing a scroll gesture.
So scroll wheel event comes in,
and it's going to have a
phase of NSEventPhaseBegan.
And a quick way of looking at this
is phase represents the physical
gesture that the user is performing,
and momentum phase is going to
be the virtual gesture that the
device does on behalf of the user,
depending on the velocity that they
ended the physical gesture with.
So the user started a
physical gesture here.
The first event has an NSEventPhaseBegan.
This is the beginning of what
I call a gesture scroll sequence.
The scroll sequence has a begin,
it has some change events,
and it has an end.
So as the user continues to
move their finger across,
more scroll wheel events come in,
and they will have a phase
of NSEventPhaseChanged.
It's easy to tell that this is
still a gesture scrolling sequence
tied to the very first NSEventBegan
event that we saw earlier.
At some point,
the user is going to lift their finger,
and we'll get another scroll wheel
event with a phase of NSEventPhaseEnded.
And you'll also have a
scrolling delta of 00.
If this is important to you,
you'll -- the scrolling deltas
for NSEventPhaseEnded is 0.
At this point,
the user has physically ended
their gesture and life completed.
continue.
But that's not quite the
end of the story because,
as I said earlier,
the user might have some velocity
when they lift their finger.
And when they do that,
you'll get that one
NSEVENT_PHASE_ENDED event to
finish off the physical gesture.
It will have its delta of . And then
that might be followed up with a scroll
wheel event with a phase of none,
but a momentum phase of . And this
follows the same gesture sequence.
You get a . As the momentum dies down,
you get a series of
NSEVENT_PHASE_CHANGED in
the momentum phase property.
And then finally,
once the momentum has ended,
you'll get a final scroll
wheel event with a momentum
phase of NSEVENT_PHASE_ENDED.
So that's the basics of what's
going on with scrolling.
If you just use an NSScrollView,
a lot of it is handled for you.
If you need to look at
the raw scroll events,
you can determine when a
physical gesture is occurring,
when a virtual gesture is occurring,
or if it's occurring just
from a scroll wheel device.
Let's move ahead to fluid swiping.
This is something you've seen in Safari.
We also have it in preview
and in iCal and Quick Look.
It's a nice way of moving between pages
back and forward and it behaves similar
to what you see on iOS where you get the
nice one bounce back and you're scrolling
with two fingers on a Magic Trackpad and
you keep going a second time and you get
a nice back and forward with the pages.
And if you pay attention,
what you'll realize is fluid
swiping is just scrolling.
That's all it is.
It's just a new way
of tracking scrolling.
Anybody that's using an In-a-Scroll view,
this should look a very
familiar responder chain to you.
You start off with your Document View,
and a scroll wheel event is going to
be hit tested to your Document View.
That's when the cursor is over.
And your Document View doesn't do
anything with the scroll wheel event.
It just gets past the responder chain,
gets to the In-a-Scroll View,
and the scroll view does scrolling,
it does rubber banding,
it does everything it needs to do,
and it eats the event.
Well, if fluid swiping is just a
new way of tracking scrolling,
we need to get the scroll event
to your View Controller so
that you can perform a swipe.
And instead of changing properties
on the scroll view directly,
in your View Controller,
you just override this
new In-a-Responder method,
"Want scroll events for swipe
tracking on axis?" And depending on
the axis and what you want to do,
you return "Yes." And when you do that,
if we re-look at the sequence,
the scroll event comes
to the Document View,
comes up to the scroll view,
scroll view determines if it
needs to do the single bounce,
or if you're already at the edge,
what is the user preference,
it looks at all of that,
then it might ask of the responder chain,
"Get into your View Controller,
"Want scroll events for
swipe tracking on this axis,
"horizontal or vertical?" And your
View Controller is going to say,
"Yes, I want to track a swipe." And the
scroll view will then go ahead and
forward that scroll wheel event
right to your View Controller,
and you can go ahead and start
tracking it as a fluid swipe.
But that's not quite
the end of the story.
Turns out we have a user
preference for this.
The user can actually turn this
off if they don't want to perform
fluid swiping with scrolling to go
backwards and forwards in pages.
Well, NSScrollView,
and it already looks at this
user preference for you and it
respects this user preference,
and it will not forward scroll
wheel events up the responder
chain regardless if you want
to track it as a swipe or not.
But that's not the only way
that your controller might
get a scroll wheel event.
If you're just,
if you're tracking this in just
your generic window controller,
you, scroll wheel events might come from
the sidebar if the user is over a
sidebar or a toolbar or somewhere
else that there isn't a scroll view.
And performing a swipe might
perfectly be acceptable while the
user's cursor is over the sidebar.
But in those conditions when your
scroll wheel event is called,
you will need to check
to make sure that it is,
it does have a phase that
is not equal to none,
so that it is coming
from a gesture device.
You don't know when a regular
scroll wheel begins and ends,
so we can't track that as a fluid swipe.
And also check the user's preference
with this new category method on NSEvent.
Is swipe tracking from
scroll events enabled?
So this is sort of a
scary block of code here.
I want to point out that-- don't
panic-- that we have sample code that
I'm going to show you in a little bit.
So I'm just going to point
out key portions of this.
And this is kind of some stripped
down coding and compressed.
But when you get a scroll wheel
event in your view controller,
what you want to do is, on that event,
call track_swipe_event_with_options
dampen_amount_threshold_men_max
using handler.
And then you pass it a block.
And we return a bunch of properties.
And this block is going
to get called back.
And it's going to do all
the tracking for you.
And it will have a consistent
way of tracking a fluid swipe
across all applications,
as long as you do this.
So you don't have to track it manually
and worry about the end of the phase of
the event from the scroll wheel directly.
Instead,
we get you this nice block that we
call back as we continue to track
the scroll wheel events for you.
And the first thing you see in
there is We have a gesture amount.
So when you're tracking a fluid swipe,
you start off at zero and you're
going to go to 100% or negative
100% depending on the direction.
And we give this to you in
floating values between zero
and one or over to negative one.
And there are actually
cases where you can get,
you can go past one.
We'll get into that in a little bit.
Generally all you have to do is just
move your overlay content appropriately.
It's supposed to be 50% swipe,
you move your content over 50%
of however wide your view is.
We also have a phase value that's
passed into your block every
time we go into this block.
And just like a scroll wheel sequence,
you have a sequence here as well.
You're guaranteed to get an
NSEventPhaseBegin to start things off.
And at that point,
it's a great time for you to
go ahead and show your overlay.
If you get an NSEventPhase ended,
this is the physical end of the gesture.
Go ahead--it means it
completed successfully,
so go ahead and update your
model--your data model.
If you get an NSEventPhase canceled,
this is another form that the user
has physically ended the gesture,
but it didn't end successfully.
Perhaps it didn't swipe
far enough or fast enough,
or they started going in one
direction and started going
back in the opposite direction.
For a number of factors that we will
deal with in heuristics for you,
it wasn't a successful swipe.
It was a cancel.
If it's a cancel,
you don't need to update your data model.
You don't need to do much of anything.
But again,
this isn't quite the end of the
story because even though the
user's physically ended the gesture,
we need to continue to call back
to your block with the appropriate
animation curves in continuing to
modify the gesture amount to go
to 1 or -1 if it was a success or
back to 0 if it was unsuccessful.
So we will continue to
call back into your block,
and the phase will be none,
and at some point,
the isComplete property
will be set to yes.
The isComplete parameter of
the block will be set to yes.
This is the last time that
your block is getting called.
After this, the block memory is going
to be released for you,
so go ahead and hide any overlay
content that you have to go ahead--that
is animating the fluid swipe.
And with that,
let's get a quick look at the demo.
So this is Picture Swiper.
This demo should be already
attached to this session,
so you can go ahead and
download the project.
And I'm just using two fingers here.
And you can even see I get a
nice little bounce effect going,
and if I were to start at the beginning,
it automatically dampens the
amount for me as I get to there
and I have no more content to go.
I'm going to zoom in a little bit here.
And you can see I can scroll around.
I can get to the edge.
Get to the edge and I get the
one bounce and then it goes
ahead and continues to scroll.
This is more of a photo style
that you might have seen on iOS.
We also have this stack style that the
sample code shows you how to do which
is more like Safari does as it goes
back and forward in pages in Safari.
And here's the project.
What I want to point out
in the project is-- oh,
wrong project, sorry.
Here it is.
What I want to point out in the project
is we have a stack swipe controller
and a slideshow swipe controller.
And these are the two controllers that
do one style of animation or the other.
And the other thing I want
to point out in here is
You'll see in here we have this
concept of updating layers cache.
It turns out that fluid swiping is very,
very performance sensitive.
As soon as the user starts to perform a
fluid swipe they need to have immediate
feedback visually on the screen.
And if you spend time creating a view,
making it layer back,
generating thumbnails or high
resolution images of whatever your
content is and getting that across
to the video card and to the layers,
this can severely impact that
initial showing of responding to
the user and it can make for a
really bad feeling for the user if
this is not immediately responsive.
So this project shows you one way
of handling that by caching your
layers and keeping them up in sync.
And so as soon as swiping starts we can
have an immediate feedback for the user.
So download the sample code,
check it out.
So let's go ahead and move
on to multi-image dragging.
You might have seen this in the
finder already as you drag around.
We'll go ahead and animate to some
final destination and as you go
across to a different destination we
can change the dragging contents so
that it looks more like where it's
going to end at the final location.
and this has three main benefits.
One, as we have an image for each
individual item that you're dragging,
we can animate them
independently of each other,
and they can move slightly offset
from the cursor so we can see what's
underneath the cursor in some cases,
if that makes sense.
It provides great feedback to the user,
so they can see what's going to
happen when I drop in this view.
And third,
it provides a means for you as a
developer to interact with the dragging,
both as the source-- it's not
just a static image that you
started with-- as the source,
you can change the dragging image.
And even as a destination,
you can participate in the drag and
change the dragging image as well to
give the user better feedback on what
will happen when they drop in your view.
And the way this works is we have a
new concept of an NS dragging item,
and there's the source
and the destination,
and we want to animate from
the source set of images to
the destination set of images.
And it's exactly that.
It's a set of images,
and they're named in this case.
And so we'll take the source
icon and animate that to
the destination icon image,
and we'll take the source
label image and animate that
to the destination label image.
And the animation looks
a little something like
this when it's slowed down.
In Snow Leopard,
this is how you would start a drag.
You would create a pasteboard,
you would clear its contents,
and you would write your pasteboard
writers onto the pasteboard and
you'd set the pasteboard all up.
And then on some view you would
call drag image at location offset
event pasteboard source slideback.
In Lion, it looks a little bit like this.
On your SumView, you say,
begin dragging session with items, event,
source.
And unlike Snow Leopard,
where a drag would start
and it would run off,
and when the drag was completed,
it would return to that portion of your
code and continue executing from there.
Begin dragging session with items, event,
source returns immediately and
it returns a dragging session.
And at this point,
you can continue to modify the
properties of the dragging session.
In this case, animates to starting
position on cancel or fail,
which is equivalent to the slide back
parameter of the method in Snow Leopard.
The drag actually starts for you
and is handled asynchronously on
the next turn of the run loop.
So when BeginDraggingSessionWithItems
is called,
you need to supply it a
set of dragging items.
And an array of dragging items--
there's the NSDraggingItem that
we covered briefly earlier.
We're going to go into
a little more detail.
And dragging items have to have an item.
And the item can either
be an NSPaceboardWriter
or an NSPaceboardReader,
depending on its context.
In this case, we're creating it.
So it needs to be an NSPaceboardWriter.
And that means that it has to
be an object that conforms to
the NSPaceboardWriting protocol.
A lot of objects already
in the kit do this for you,
such as NSString or NSURL.
And then this dragging item has a frame.
And the coordinate system of the
frame is dependent on its context
and where the dragging item is used.
And now you'll see some examples of that
as we go along and I'll point that out.
And then it has an array
of image components,
which is what I showed you earlier,
where these are the named images that
make up the complete image for this drag.
And now we can animate these items,
these individual items
independently of each other.
Image components can't be set directly.
That's why there's the
little double asterisk there.
You don't set them directly,
and I will show you how to set those,
but they have a name
and they have a frame,
along with their contents,
and their frame is in the coordinate
system of the NSDRAGGING item itself.
It's sort of like an
NSView parent-child relationship.
So the coordinate system for the
image component frames is the bounds
of the NSDRAGGING item itself,
and this turns out to be really
easy to set it up and maintain it.
And every NSDRAGGING item comes
with a limited lifetime guarantee.
What I mean by that is I guarantee
that NSDRAGGING items have
a very limited lifetime.
You'll see this is a reoccurring theme
in the coming up slides and I will
be sure to point out exactly where
this limited lifetime takes effect.
So this is how you might go ahead and
create an NSDragging item in code.
NSDragging item Alec,
a knit with pasteboard rider.
The only way you can create an NSDragging
item is with a pasteboard rider.
And then you go ahead and you
set the dragging frame and
the contents of the image.
This is actually a convenience method,
set dragging frame contents.
What this does is it sets the
appropriate dragging frame and it
sets one image component that contains
whatever content you supplied,
whatever image,
and it maps directly to the dragging
frame that you set in there.
And it's automatically given the
name of icon for animation purposes.
You really only want to do
this if you're dragging one
item that contains one image,
maybe a handful, two, three items.
Because when a user
starts to do the drag,
you want to respond to that right away.
If you have thousands of items and you're
trying to generate thousands of images,
that's just going to be too slow and
have a lot of lag time for the user.
The preferred method for setting up
the image components is to provide
an image components provider.
And this is a block that will be called
back at some later time during dragging.
And it is at this point that
you build your components array.
And you do that by simply calling
NSDraggingImage component,
dragging image component with key.
In this case,
the first one I'm creating is the icon.
So I pass an NSDraggingImage
component icon key.
We also define the NSDraggingImage
component label key.
We think icon and label are going
to be the two most used names as
you drag between applications.
So we can animate from one item to
the other fluidly and seamlessly.
You go ahead.
And you set your frame.
And then you set your contents.
Even though you're doing this
in an image components provider,
please update your contents here
as quickly as possible or use some
cache image if you already have that.
And then you add that to
your components array.
And then you just continue to do
this for however many items that
you want in your NSDragging item,
however many images that you want.
The key is just an inner string.
Like I said,
we've defined icon and label.
You can put any string you want in there,
like perhaps background.
And we have sample code that I'm
going to show you in a little bit.
And that's exactly what I do is
I add a third image component
that's named background.
Once you have your array,
your components provider
block will return that.
Now one of the reasons
we're using a block is,
say that the user is trying
to drag thousands of items,
or even just hundreds of
items from your application.
If we were to call in every single
image component provider for that,
that would take a long time
to generate all these images.
And they're not all going
to be probably shown on the
screen at the same time anyway.
So we look at a variety of heuristics,
and we determine which
of the dragging items,
since you always return the
dragging item frame that helps out,
are the ones we're going
to display on screen.
And given some other heuristics,
we only call in a subset of
the image component provider
blocks that you've passed in.
It's much cheaper and much faster for
you to provide 1,000 image component
provider blocks than it is for you
to generate 1,000 times however many
images in each dragging item you have.
So we do this for performance.
So back to our Begin Dragging
Session with Items.
We've created our collection
of dragging items.
One thing you might be wondering is from
the Snow Leopard example of the code,
we started off by creating a pasteboard.
In Lion,
we haven't created a pasteboard yet.
And that's because when you
created these dragging items,
you set the item as a pasteboard rider.
Begin Dragging Session with Item will
go through these and automatically
create the pasteboard for you and put
the items on the pasteboard right out of
your dragging item since the pasteboard
rider is automatically for you.
It works out great.
But right after you call begin
dragging session with items and
a dragging session is returned,
the effective lifetime for
those dragging items is over.
Don't bother accessing the dragging
items in the array anymore.
There's still valid objects.
They still have a retain here,
so you should probably
release your array.
Actually, that should be an auto-released
array based on that method name.
And they'll be auto-released
when the pool is released.
But if you modify them at this point,
they won't affect the drag.
So effectively, their lifetime is over.
Don't access them anymore.
Anybody that's written a dragging source,
you've probably seen
these category methods.
They've been upgraded
to a formal protocol.
These are all optional, of course.
And we've added a dragging session
parameter where appropriate in the names.
So when you get callback, for example,
began at point or moved to point,
you have the dragging session and
you can modify properties of the
dragging session or even enumerate
and modify the dragging images.
Likewise as a destination,
these are the category
methods we've had before.
They've been upgraded to a protocol.
And we've also declared that
the sender of these methods,
they conform to a new protocol
called NSDraggingInfo so that
you know definitely that sender
implements the NSDraggingInfo
protocol and you can easily find
out and get auto-completion in Xcode
on what methods sender implements.
We did add one new method called
updateDraggingItemsForDrag,
which is really important.
And let's take a look at a typical drag.
In this setup, we have, on the left,
an AcceptsDrag.
On the right, excuse me.
On the right,
an AcceptsDrag and a userDestination.
Both of these views can accept this drag.
But in this example,
the user's going to drop it
on the userDestination view.
So the user starts the drag,
it enters the AcceptsDrag.
And that view is going to
get a dragging entered.
And you might think, oh,
dragging entered this view,
now would be a good time
to update these images.
No, you don't want to update them here,
because the user's going to end
up over the destination view.
And if you change the image
here and change it as the user
goes into the destination view,
you're going to have a lot
of animations going on.
And it can get distracting really fast.
Think of dragging across a
couple of Finder windows.
You're going to go across the desktop,
over the sidebar, over icon view,
over the desktop again, another sidebar,
and maybe now into a list view.
You're going to have a lot
of animations happening.
And it's going to be very
distracting for the user.
So now's not a dragging entered.
So this isn't a good time to do that.
You might think, well,
during dragging updated,
I'll look at the mouse and figure
out how fast things are moving,
and I'll try and decide something.
You don't need to do that.
We're going to take care of that for you.
So in dragging updated, don't worry about
changing your images yet,
because in this example,
the user has exited.
and has immediately
entered the other view,
and that view gets a dragging entered,
and as we've already discussed,
we're not gonna do anything.
You'll get some dragging updated,
and the dragging manager
is doing heuristics,
uh, behind the scenes,
and it just-- finally, at some point,
it's gonna determine that this view
is a probable drop destination.
At that point, you're gonna be called,
as a destination in this new method,
"update dragging items for drag." It's
at this point that you wanna go ahead
and enumerate all of the dragging items,
update their images,
and we'll get a nice image
animation transition.
And the way you do that is with
this method on NSDraggingInfo.
Drag info, enumerate dragging items
with options for view,
classes, search options using blocks.
I also want to point out that
this exact same method also
exists on NSDraggingSession.
So if you're doing things as a dragging
source where you have a dragging session,
you can also enumerate the items
and change their images there.
Right away in this block,
you'll get called back on the
block for each dragging item.
You'll see that I'm just typecasting
the dragging item item as a URL.
In this case, whenever you're
enumerating dragging items,
this is a case where the item
is actually a pasteboard reader.
What's going on here is you're
actually enumerating the pasteboard,
not the original dragging items that
you began the dragging session with,
because this might be a completely
different process as a destination.
So you're actually enumerating the
items on the pasteboard and the
data that is associated with it.
We will go ahead and create a
dragging item on the fly and use
it in the block right here for you.
Now I can do this type cast
because when I wanted to
enumerate these dragging items,
I said, well, these are the object
classes that I accept.
This is very similar to
what you're going to see in
NSPasteboard for reading objects.
You read objects for
classes with some options.
And these are the exact same classes
and options that you get there.
And in this case,
I just said what I accept
is an NSURL class.
It's the only thing I've accepted.
So in my block,
I know that the dragging item
item is going to be an NSURL.
An NSURL is a pasteboard reader.
I can go ahead and do this type cast.
At this point,
create your dragging image or better yet,
create an image components
provider block that's going to
create the dragging image for you.
Do it quickly.
Even in the image component provider,
do it as quickly as possible.
And determine what your new frame is.
The dragging frame
I mentioned earlier was,
its coordinate system was
dependent on where it's used.
When you're creating a dragging item
and you call begin dragging session,
at that point,
the view that you're calling
begin dragging session on,
The dragging items,
dragging frames are in that
coordinate space of that view.
In this case,
it's whatever view that you passed
in for the enumerate dragging
items will automatically set up the
dragging frame of the dragging item
inside that coordinate space for you.
If you set nil, we'll just use the
screen coordinate space.
Again, I'm for,
so everything fits on the slide.
I went ahead and used the set dragging
frame contents convenience method,
but in general,
try and use the image components
providers where possible,
particularly if you're
dragging lots of items.
As I mentioned,
we create a dragging item on
the fly as we're enumerating,
from the paste board and
from the associated data.
So this instance of the block,
each time it gets called,
that is the effective lifetime
for that dragging item.
You don't want to retain it and try
and use it outside of the block.
And if you create a components provider,
you don't want to access
the dragging item directly,
because that will cause a retain on it
inside the components provider block,
which is going to get called
outside of this enumeration block,
and at that point it's
effectively no longer valid.
So always pull the item,
the information that you need
out of the dragging item first,
and then use the information
you pulled out in your image
components provider block.
So this is the effective lifetime,
limited lifetime for the
dragging item when you enumerate.
There's always been the
prepare for drag operation,
perform drag operation,
and conclude drag operation methods
have been there for when a drop occurs.
And these always got called back.
But now they have some new
meaning applied to them.
We want to have a continuous
fluid drag and drop all the
way to their final location of
whatever the user is dragging.
And you can participate in this
during prepare for drag operation.
What you do is you set animates
to destination equal to yes.
And then when we call perform
drag operation on your view,
you not only update your data model,
but we've set up an NSGraphics context
for you with the appropriate duration,
and you want to animate making a gap.
You also enumerate through the
dragging items one more time,
and you set their final locations.
You enumerate with your view
as the for view property,
so you just determine where
their frame is inside your view,
and you set that as the dragging frame.
It's really as simple as that.
And then when we get back
from perform drag operation,
you've animated the gap.
You've told us where
to drop the drag image,
so we move the drag image into place,
and we call you back with
conclude drag operation.
At this point, the drag image is
actually still on screen,
and you've actually
just drawn a blank spot.
At this point,
you update your drawing model
to start drawing the actual
data in the right place.
And you set your view as dirty.
When we return from this,
we're gonna drop the drag
image from the screen,
and we'll refresh your view if
it's marked as needing display.
And if the drag image that
you gave us matched exactly
what you draw in the view now,
it will be a completely
smooth transition.
The user won't see any flicker,
won't see anything happen.
It looks like what they were dragging
just dropped right into place,
seamless and very smooth.
So let's give you a quick demo of that.
So this is the multi-photo frame
demo that's attached to this session.
I'm going to drag a
couple of images here.
And you'll see they have automatically
updated the dragging image to what
they're going to appear when I drop them,
and when I drop them,
they animate right into place.
I can even drag another image in here.
And you see this one's going to
go into a landscape orientation.
And my content's animated
as the dropped image,
the dropped file was
animating into place.
And everything was smooth and seamless.
It works great.
And even as a destination,
I might start dragging this
item and as the source here,
as I leave the window,
I change the dragging image
so it looks like a window.
So when I drop, I get the window there.
Or if I come back in here and let go,
it'll slide right back to
where it was supposed to go.
So these are a couple of things that the,
you know,
Project shows you how to do.
I'm running a little low on time.
Close the picture swiper.
So here, the source code's got lots
of comments in here for you.
To move to point,
this is the case where as a dragging
source I'm watching the mouse
and I get the point right out of,
right from here and I convert
it from its screen location.
And this is where I determine when
it goes in and out and I go ahead
and enumerate the dragging items
and set up the window drag image.
I just go ahead and call the
convenience method because
I have the one image there.
When you come back into the window I go
ahead and enumerate the dragging items
again and I set back up their original
images and the dragging controller
Here it is.
The drag controller set up at the
image component providers will actually
bring back the image component,
will actually generate the
image components for me.
And this is the interesting part
I wanted to show you real quick.
Here's where I'm changing that animates
to starting position on cancel or fail,
depending on if the cursor is
currently in the view or not.
Dropping on the desktop
isn't a valid drop.
I kind of faked that in this example
because I wanted to display a window.
The finder isn't accepting the drop,
but I want to display the window,
so it's always going to be a cancel.
If it cancels on the desktop,
I don't want to slide back the animation.
But if I'm in the view,
I want to go ahead and toggle
the animates position on cancel
or fail back to yes so that it
does slide back into position.
So this is an example of how you
can modify the dragging session
properties during the drag.
So multi-image dragging,
there's a lot to it.
And it turns out that we can do a
lot of this for you in some cases.
And in this table view in
the delegate methods there,
there are some APIs-- and particularly
in the view-based table view,
if you wire things up
appropriately in your nib,
it makes it real easy,
it makes it a breeze.
Corbin's giving a talk on
view-based table views later,
and I encourage you to come.
He'll show you how easy it is to do
multi-image dragging in table views.
Likewise, NSCollectionView also has a
similar set of delegate APIs as
the view-based table view to make
doing multi-image dragging very,
very easy for you to do.
So that's the talk.
We've covered the new
content-focused scrolling.
We looked at the redesign of scrollers
and how you can participate in that,
particularly if you have excess
reviews or if you are providing
your own scroller subclasses.
We've looked at fluid swiping,
which is just a new way of tracking
gesture scroll wheel events.
Please use the track swipe
method to do the tracking.
That way, all applications will get
the same animation curves,
will get the same heuristics applied
for determining if the user's
gesture was a success or a failure.
And we ended it off with the
new multi-image dragging,
which is going to provide lots of
great feedback for the user and provide
some great new capabilities for both
source and destinations of drags.
We have full screen
and animation changes.
There's another related session.
This one has already occurred.
So if you're watching this on the video,
you might want to check
that session out as well.
We have view-based in its table view,
basic to advanced that Corbin is giving.
This is the one I alluded
to a little bit earlier.
It's tomorrow at 10:15 AM.
I highly recommend that
you check that one out.
Bill Dudney's
Application Frameworks Evangelist.
Please read the application
kit release notes.
We've got information on the heuristics,
on automatically choosing
which scroller style to use,
and also more information on fluid
swiping and multi-image dragging and the
heuristics that are used there as well.
And always check out the documentation.
Thank you all,
and I hope to see you in the lab.